Added Discord messages with colors guide (#691)
discord-python/site: pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/python-guides/discord-messages-with-colors.md

---
title: Discord Messages with Colors
description: A guide on how to add colors to your codeblocks on Discord
---

Discord is now slowly rolling out the ability to send colored messages within code blocks. It uses the ANSI color codes, so if you've tried to print colored text in your terminal or console with Python or other languages then it will be easy for you.

To be able to send a colored text, you need to use the `ansi` language for your code block and provide a prefix of this format before writing your text:
```
\u001b[{format};{color}m
```

> *The `\u001b` is the unicode for ESCAPE/ESC, see <http://www.unicode-symbol.com/u/001B.html>.* ***If you want to use it yourself without bots, then you need to copy paste the character from the website.***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*`\u001b` is the unicode escape for ESCAPE/ESC, meant to be used in the source of your bot (see <http://www.unicode-symbol.com/u/001B.html>).* ***If you wish to send colored text without using your bot you need to copy the character from the website.***
```

After you've written this, you can type and text you wish, and if you want to reset the color back to normal, then you need to use `\u001b[0m` as prefix.

Here is the list of values you can use to replace `{format}`:

* 0: Normal
* 1: **Bold**
* 4: <ins>Underline</ins>

Here is the list of values you can use to replace `{color}`:

*The following values will change the **text** color.*

* 30: Gray
* 31: Red
* 32: Green
* 33: Yellow
* 34: Blue
* 35: Pink
* 36: Cyan
* 37: White

*The following values will change the **text background** color.*

* 40: Some very dark blue
* 41: Orange
* 42: Gray
* 43: Light gray
* 44: Even lighter gray
* 45: Indigo
* 46: Again some gray

> * 47: White

Reviewer: "Some very dark blue" and "Again some gray" isn't very descriptive

Author: Tried to name them better according to some color name finders.

Let's take an example, I want a bold green colored text with the very dark blue background.
I simply use `\u001b[0;40m` (background color) and `\u001b[1;32m` (text color) as prefix. Note that the order is **important**, first you give the background color and then the text color.<br>
Alternatively you can also directly combine them into a single prefix like the following: `\u001b[1;40;32m` and you can also use multiple values. Something like `\u001b[1;40;4;32m` would underline the text, make it bold, make it green and have a dark blue background.

Raw message:<br>
\`\`\`ansi<br>
\u001b[0;40m\u001b[1;32mThat's some cool formatted text right?<br>
or<br>
\u001b[1;40;32mThat's some cool formatted text right?<br>
\`\`\`

> Result:<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Result:

```

> ![Background and text color](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/739937507768270939/930460020603224084/Background-Text-Color.png)

Reviewer: Shouldn't we consider hosting this content ourselves?

It is not permitted to use Discord as a CDN and we are now moving away from the platform making this a problem.

EDIT: To clarify, this is a question open for everyone and not just you as the PR author.

Author: I don't know the stance for that one, would love to know how to proceed.

Reviewer: Is there any @python-discord/core-developers who can give some insight into how to move forward here?

Reviewer 2: Please store images [in the static directory for content](https://github.com/python-discord/site/tree/main/pydis_site/static/images/content). See https://github.com/python-discord/site/blob/1005229e825a5f2449168bcae2b85667c5799265/pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/pydis-guides/help-channel-guide.md?plain=1#L43 for an example of referencing an image in the static directory.

---

> title: Discord messages with colors

Reviewer 3: A little nitpick to keep in consistency with the other titles
```suggestion
title: Discord Messages with Colors
```

description: A guide on how to add colors to your codeblocks on Discord
---

> Discord is now slowly rolling out the ability to send colored messages within code blocks. It uses the ANSI color codes, so if you've tried to print colored text in your terminal or console with Python or other languages then it will be easy for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Discord is now slowly rolling out the ability to send colored text within code blocks. This is done using ANSI color codes which is also how you print colored text in your terminal.
```

> To be able to send a colored text, you need to use the `ansi` language for your code block and provide a prefix of this format before writing your text:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send colored text in a code block you need to first specify the `ansi` language and use the prefixes similar to the one below:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ansi
```

* 30: Gray
* 31: Red
* 32: Green
* 33: Yellow
* 34: Blue
* 35: Pink
* 36: Cyan
* 37: White

*The following values will change the **text background** color.*

* 40: Some very dark blue
* 41: Orange
* 42: Gray
* 43: Light gray
* 44: Even lighter gray
* 45: Indigo
* 46: Again some gray
* 47: White

Let's take an example, I want a bold green colored text with the very dark blue background.
I simply use `\u001b[0;40m` (background color) and `\u001b[1;32m` (text color) as prefix. Note that the order is **important**, first you give the background color and then the text color.<br>
Alternatively you can also directly combine them into a single prefix like the following: `\u001b[1;40;32m` and you can also use multiple values. Something like `\u001b[1;40;4;32m` would underline the text, make it bold, make it green and have a dark blue background.

Raw message:<br>
\`\`\`ansi<br>
\u001b[0;40m\u001b[1;32mThat's some cool formatted text right?<br>
or<br>
\u001b[1;40;32mThat's some cool formatted text right?<br>
\`\`\`

Result:<br>
![Background and text color](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/739937507768270939/930460020603224084/Background-Text-Color.png)

> The way the colors look like on Discord is shown in the image below ^^

Reviewer: The text says "below" but the arrows point up and the image is above?

Author: That is old

Reviewer: Ah, okay. Please disregard this comment then. I'll mark it resolved.

> The way the colors look like on Discord is shown in the image below ^^
> 
> Note: If the change as not been brought to you yet, or other users, then you can use other code blocks in the meantime to get colored text. See this gist: <https://gist.github.com/matthewzring/9f7bbfd102003963f9be7dbcf7d40e51>
> 
> ![ANSI Colors](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/739937507768270939/930825555803263016/ANSI-Colors.png)

Reviewer 3: Could we order this to be:
```suggestion
The way the colors look like on Discord is shown in the image below:
![ANSI Colors](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/739937507768270939/930825555803263016/ANSI-Colors.png)

Note: If the change as not been brought to you yet, or other users, then you can use other code blocks in the meantime to get colored text. See this gist: <https://gist.github.com/matthewzring/9f7bbfd102003963f9be7dbcf7d40e51>
```
